(WIP)
Idea: Fate Scribes, they're the "left-hand man" of authors, capable of manipulating fate for the sake of narrative cohesion. Plot armor? A skribble's work. Convenient question asked? Skribble. Straight dumb luck? You know what was responsible now~! They are tiny pale-green fire-like spirits meant to mirror the "flames of creativity". They have a tail protruding from their napes, meant to act more like life-lines or leashes rather than actual tails, but they do have an iconic pen quil-tip at the ends of these "nape tails". They all are missing right arms too, as they're meant to be the "Left Hands" of authors. They used to carry personality and the ability to talk, but following the events of Protos and "The Skribble" in Farewell Avalon, all skribbles are now created without these "privilages".

Firmata Frontier Discord Server, The Restricted Archives, Skribble Containment Room:
As you enter one of the rooms connected to the long alcove, you stand before a massive row of strung-up green flames.
These are Skribbles.
They are primordial flickers of creativity, birthed when humanity first dabbled with the concept of fiction— long before pens were born.
Manifesting as pale green soul flickers and spirit-like appearances, these little fatelings are what you use to script the fates of characters in your stories.

When bad luck strikes a character, you wrote their fate using your skribble.
As a character pushes forward against all odds, they persist through your insistence, through your skribble.
Following every story's inciting incident, every ending, every continuation— you pave that path through your skribble.

They are the bridge between your creative will and their fictional reality.

It seems this room stores all inactive skribbles.
You didn't notice this sooner, but there don't seem to be any walls in this chamber.

For every person alive in your world, their skribble is stored here. They're merely called upon and put into service once creativity strikes their mind.
That includes you.

No longer carrying a mind of their own, no harboring of creative freedom, no will to disobey, and a confiscated right to sentience— they are the ultimate tools of creativity.
In fact, some believe they are the spiritual manifestations of creativity itself.