(WIP)
Firmata Frontier Discord Server Mini Wiki Entry:

Little dust sillies

───── <  > ─────
Little Dust-like creatures that live in objects.

They use items as their shells to hide away—
or express themselves.

Some see them as pests.
I just think they're silly~

-Professor Besado

Short Description
Coming in many different colors and sizes, Thingamakin Juveniles are wild animalistic dust pests that can be found anywhere on The Continent.
Although they're uncommon, it's mostly likely due to the fact they're often scared of humanoids. When frightened, they retreat into their object shells and scutter away.

Their dusty bodies let them burrow their way into objects they deem as "suitable shells". However, doing so also damages the object after the Thingamakin eventually moves on and abandons it.
However, it's been noted that they don't damage intentionally, as they prefer items with internals already-present as their shells. Things like devices, the wedges of doors, or even storage units. When abandoning these types of objects, they leave no trace of damage behind.

📚 Classification
Alterant

Weaknesses
Vibrations

🌳 Lifespan
5-10 Years (Intended)
(Can be surpassed)

🥩 Nutritional Value
Low Calorie Count
(Tastes like Pork)

Traits
Shapeshifting, Full-Body Sensory, Experience Consumption

Abilities
Full-Body Senses 👁️👃👂
Thingamakin perceive all 5 senses through their dusty bodies. They taste, feel, hear, smell, and see through their archose-like dust, similar to ⁠Archkin.
However, since it's only their dusty forms that share this trait, when retreating into their object shell, all their senses dull out.

Experience Consumption
Rather than needing food, water, or even air to live— Thingamakin persist through Experiences and gaining/perpetuation new Memories, a trait shared with Archubi.
However, unlike their distant ⁠Alterants cousins, Thingamakin cannot absorb memories from others. Rather, they must gain memories naturally.

If a Thingamakin cowers away for too long and stagnates, it can quickly lead to finality.

Overview
Thingamakin are odd critters as there are still many mysteries surrounding them. Notably, nobody knows how they reproduce. More of them just... pop up. When asking the sentient ⁠Thingamakin Elders about this, they don't seem to have an answer either.

Speaking of their Elder counterparts, that's another bizarre case with these little things.
Thingamakin slowly gain sentience as they get bigger and older. They start out animalistic, but after their 10 years of expected lifespan, if one simply... keeps surviving... it eventually develops ⁠Humans-level sentience.
This makes it a moral dilemma whether or not it's fine to kill Thingamakin, let alone consume them. It doesn't help that their bodies taste exactly like human.

They're technically considered ⁠Alterants (Modified Humans) as they were once ⁠Humans. But the result of their creation produced the furthest and closest attempt at creating new ⁠Archkin.
Essentially, they're "Failed ⁠Archkin".